---
layout: paper

title: "Finding Robust Solutions for Many-Objective Optimization Using NSGA-III"

authors:
- Deepanshu Yadav
- Palaniappan Ramu
- Kalyanmoy Deb

venue: "Congress on Evolutionary Computation"

year: 2023

link: https://www.egr.msu.edu/~kdeb/papers/c2023002.pdf

abstract: "
The primary task of evolutionary multi-objective optimization (EMO) is to find
the globally best Pareto-optimal front. However, often decision makers (DMs)
are not interested in obtaining the global frontier. Instead, they prefer a set
of solutions for which there is no significant change in objective values
within a small neighborhood of each decision variable vector, resulting in a
set of robust solutions. The corresponding objective vectors are said to lie on
the robust front. In practical applications, such as in engineering designs,
designers are interested in robust designs which are less sensitive to the
perturbation in the design variables and parameters, caused by the
manufacturing process tolerances, material non-uniformity, uncertainties in
supply-chain process, and by many other practical matters. An earlier robust
EMO study proposed two different robustness measures and used the elitist
non-dominated sorting genetic algorithms (NSGA-II) to find respective robust
fronts. However, the limitation of NSGA-II in generating well-distributed and
diverse set solutions for many-objective optimization, the robust optimization
concept must be extended with evolutionary many-objective optimization (EMaO)
algorithms to investigate the efficacy in more than three-objective problems.
This study proposes an extension of test problems for robust many-objective
optimization tasks and demonstrates the performance of updated NSGA-III
procedure to two to eight-objective test and real-world problems.
"

who_suggested: Tinkle Chugh
status: suggested
---
